# spatial_variability
## Data and R script for "Environmental heterogeneity modulates the effect of biodiversity on the spatial variability of grassland biomass"

In this repository you will find the data files and the script to analyze those files according to Daleo et al 2023. Environmental heterogeneity modulates the effect of biodiversity on the spatial variability of grassland biomass. Nature Communications. 
While there is strong evidence of diversity effects on temporal variability of productivity, whether this mechanism extends to variability across space remains elusive. The work uses data from Nutrien Network (www.nutnet.org) to determine the relationship between plant diversity and spatial variability of productivity in 83 grasslands worldwide, and quantify the effect of experimentally increased spatial heterogeneity in environmental conditions on this relationship. 

There are two data sets, one for the pre-treatment (observational_data.csv) data, and other for the experimentally increased heterogeneity (increased heterogeneity.csv). In these data sets, study sites contained three replicates (there are some exceptions) that originated from blocks each composed of ten 5 m × 5 m plots. In addition, pre-treatment data has a subset of sites in where soil conditions where measured (observational_data_soil.csv) and a version in which data for each site are sumarized and climatic variables obtained from WorldClim (www.worldclim.org) are added (observational_data_site_climate.csv). If you need any clarification or further information, please contact us.
